# Distracted-Driver-Detection-using-Computer-Vision-and-Machine-Learning <br>
The increase in the amount of accidents is quite alarming to see. Though factors like speeding drinking are some of the main causes of accidents, distracted driving contributes as well. This project’s objective is to detect activities that may cause a driver to be distracted using deep learning. It focuses on creating a model that will detect whether the driver is driving safely or is distracted. The dataset that we’ve obtained is from State Farm which comprises of 22,424 labeled images and around 88,000 unlabeled images captured from a camera fastened in the car. The labeled dataset is almost equally distributed among 10 classes. The 10 classes show the different activities of a distracted driver with one class reserved for safe driving. Image augmentation has also been implementing to get more images as convolutional neural networks have been used for learning. The issue of data leakage was also tackled. Transfer learning was used to improve the performance of the network. Popular image classification models such as VGG16, ResNet, MobileNet, AlexNet were used. Ensemble method (majority voting technique) was also used.<br>
Majority voting ensemble method performed the best and gave the best accuracy as compared to the other architectures used. Using this model on the unlabeled images also gave good performance, giving only a few misclassifications.<br>
More details are present in the report. <br><br>
Collaborator: Vaibhav Sundharam (https://github.com/vaibhavsundharam/Distracted-Driver-Detection-using-Deep-Learning)
